In the last two lectures we created those two boxes where we added some queries to our models using
local query scopes.
So you've learned where you can put more complicated queries where to store this logic.
And now we know that the best place to do that is to use a local query scopes to get some more complicated
queries inside our models.
So we have most commented and most active and this was actually pretty straightforward.
So what we did is we used whip count and then ordered by this new field that was added to this select
statement.
So let's come up with a little bit more complicated example.
And this time will also add this query scope to the users.
And this time will fetch the users that were most active in the last month.
So seems like a much more complicated thing to do.
So we'll call that with most blog posts last month.
We will also need query builder here.
OK.
So let's think how we can approach that.
So to begin with this seems to be the good idea to do the same thing as we did above.
So we need the amount of blog posts so let's do that.
And we definitely need to order by this new column.
So blog posts count in descending order.
All right.
So this would do exactly the same what this does.
So now let's see how can we verify that those blog posts were written in the last month.
So as you've seen before you can add some additional queries to the whip count because this is fetching
every element from the relation.
So we have to now somehow filter the blog posts of particular user that we want to take into account
that we wants to count.
So you've seen that already that we can do that by changing the parameter to an array where the key
is the relation name and the value is
closure which accepts our query builder and inside it will also further modify this query.
So disclosure relates to this blog posts relation.
So now we can do something with the blog posts.
So what we can do is the query builder has a method called were between and the field name that we want
to filter by is created out mind that what I'm doing here is since there is are static constant defined
on every model that you can override which just contains a name of the timestamp field created out so
you can also do created art.
This is fine but if you want to create more modular code that you can reuse easily and be more configurable
it's better to use these constants by the way.
If you do not know that the static is used to access static members of a class and constant is a static
member it doesn't change in between model instances.
That's why it is static and this is the operator to access the static members of a class that's different.
Well well this operator is different because it is used to access instance metals or fields but using
this double dot operator you access static members.
All right.
So we would like to filter the created up date.
Now how can we get a date.
We have we're between.
So we have to pass two parameters like two boundaries the first boundary where the dates should start.
And the second one where the date is the final date.
So what we can do is we can create instance of the Date object which in larval by default it is using
the carbon which is a great library on top of the default BHP daytime object and there is a helper function
called now.
And as you can see in the description it creates a new carbon instance for the current time.
So we'll get current time by by calling.
Now you can do the same for the set first our second argument.
So what we want to do is we want to fetch blog posts that are at least one month old but well maybe
another way.
We want to fetch blog posts that were created during last month.
So they created the odd date has to be equal or bigger than and now minus one month.
And between now so two boundaries.
Now how do we modify this now which would return a new instance of the carbon with the current dates.
So we have to subtract the date somehow and inside carbon you have a method called sup month or up months
I use sub moms because you can modify then and see other examples like you might want to have a blog
post that was created let's say three months ago.
So we will do sub month's free
now.
This should be enough to fetch the blog posts that know them now.
This should be enough to fetch the users that have at most blog posts created in the last month.
But let's think about how much blog posts we actually have because it's not much everything.
What we have we can see on this page.
It is about 50 blog posts so we might have users that for example have one blog post and they probably
shouldn't be displayed here as top writing users in the last month because while writing a single blog
post isn't really much activity so we can further filter them.
So what we can do is in the outside query not when we filter the relation we can add another clause
so we can up having blog about blog posts count which would be larger or equal down to.
So now let's reformat this query.
Now why I am using having instead of where.
So let's see what will happen if I were to use where So let's open Tinker P2P artisan thinker and let's
see users with most blog posts
last month.
And finally get to execute the query.
Well the problem is it says the column was not found.
So blog post count was not found in the word close.
So let's see how the actual query looks like.
Well maybe I will just copy the Square because it's not really visible inside
inside this terminal.
So I'll open a new document.
So let's see what that does.
So it is fetching all the users and then it is doing are sub query to fetch the count of all the users.
And it is fetching it as alliance as you can see hear us.
And the alliance name.
Now the problem with that is that when you fetch something as an alliance so it is not a real column
inside a table.
You cannot use it in the word close.
So this is the query that was generated by Lavell and.
Well you can't just use this new alliance which is the blog post posts count inside the workflows.
You have to use that having statement.
So instead of where we should do having now it will restart to incur and copy this statement.
So user with most blog posts last month get now you can see that we have happened to have free users
and the most active one in the last month was also cannot Yammer green.
She seems to be very active on our page.
But other than that we have two more users.
So even if you would like to take five will only get free because we are limiting it to a maximum of
five but it might be less so since we don't have much blog posts.
It is only fetching for users.
Okay.
So we have the query.
It is working properly.
Now let's go on to our post controller and add another variable to the template.
Most active less last month and will fetch user with most blog blog posts.
Last month
we'll take five elements at most five elements and execute the query using get.
And finally we have to go back to the template.
And fortunately now we can copy this fragment
so let's copied and pasted on that at the end of this template.
And let's change the time most.
Most active last month users with most posts written in the last month.
So this would be a subtitle.
And the variable name is most active last month.
So we also only leased the user names here there are no links.
So this should be enough.
Now let's say the changes and go back to our Web site and what you can see here is now we have most
commented blog posts.
Most active users and most active users within the last month since only three users have posted more
than two blog posts.
We only showed them.
Well if we ignore those that have other at least only one blog post.
So this is another example of how we can create more complicated queries for your models and where you
should store them.
So in the next lecture we will also see what might be an actual good example of the global query scope
because we created one example but then we learned it's not really a good idea to use this kind of global
query scopes and we used to use that to create the latest blog posts or latest items.
So now in the next lecture we'll actually see are much better example of using global query scopes.